# CI/CD Flow - 2024/08/31 #

## Context

To make available the pytomation package on PyPi indexes, needs a CI and CD flow that generates a wheel package,
run the tests, build the code, and publish the final package.

It needs to find an approach that works with a single commiter and manual release methodology without a big effort.

## Decision

### Trunk Development flow

- Short-lived branches with PR squash merge explaining new code changes and forced to pass the GitHub checks. Must be
  small changes
- Manual releases using tags from main branch
- Blocked pushing to main without PR

#### Why?

Simple working flow who I'm used to work, also a good methodology to have log while is growing. Forcing the PR merge,
force to follow this way.

The manual release decision is because it doesn't have enough testing to ensure automatically the quality checks and
make easiest to implement.

### Publish
- Only publish packages to main PyPi from manual GitHub releases
- Publish to test pypi package all main commits

#### Why?
To have more control when publish new versions, also using test pypi indexes checks that all pieces works fine.

### CI
- Run on every push the build, lint, test and package actions
- Use GitHub checks to protect merge actions on no compliant code
- Use shared cache to improve performance and time consumption

#### Why?

Optimize the CI phases and add more consistency.

## Consequences

- Create new CI workflow to build, run tests and lint for all pushes on branches
- Add a package step and deploy to test pypi if the branch is main
- Create a workflow for a new releases to deploy the current package to a production pypi index
